{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text 2;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text Indent 2;}{\*\cs18 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\info
{\title YRTRIGA \'96 Year of crisis trigger \'96 state A}{\author hewittjj}{\operator hewittjj}{\creatim\yr2003\mo1\dy12\hr11\min12}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy10\hr14\min3}{\version42}{\edmins431}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1401}{\nofchars7987}{\*\company UMC}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8203}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dyadic-Level International Crisis Data (version 2.0)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {International Crisis Behavior Project
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b Codebook
\par 
\par }{
\par J. Joseph Hewitt
\par Department of Political Science
\par University of Missouri-Columbia
\par Columbia, MO 65211
\par 
\par July 10, 2003
\par 
\par }{\b email:}{ }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK "mailto:hewittjj@missouri.edu" }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000017000000160000006800650077006900740074006a006a0040006d006900730073006f007500720069002e006500640075000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3a0000006d00610069006c0074006f003a006800650077006900740074006a006a0040006d00
6900730073006f007500720069002e006500640075000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 hewittjj@missouri.edu}}}{
\par }{\b 
\par ICB Data Archive Web Site: }{http://www.icbnet.org
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b \page }{\b\ul Data Set Description}{
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {This data set contains information about 882 non-directed crisis dyads identified from the main data collections offered by the International
 Crisis Behavior Project. The data set spans the years 1918-2001. A crisis dyad is a pair of states satisfying each of the following three conditions: (1) both are members of the interstate system, (2) at least one of the states satisfies all three of the
 
ICB necessary conditions for crisis involvement, and (3) at least one of the states has directed a hostile action against the other. Each case in this data set represents an annual observation of each of the crisis dyads over the complete duration of thei
r confrontation. For more information about the construction of this data set, as well as a comparison of crisis dyads to militarized interstate dispute dyads, see Hewitt (2003).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {
\par 
\par }{\b\ul Variable Descriptions}{
\par }{\b 
\par 1.\tab CRISNO}{ \endash  ICB crisis-level ID number corresponding to the crisis from which dyad was identified..
\par 
\par }{\b 2.\tab YEAR}{ \endash  Year of crisis dyad-year observation
\par 
\par }{\b 3.\tab CRISNAME}{ \endash  Crisis name
\par 
\par }{\b 4.\tab STATEA}{ \endash  3-digit COW ID number for state A.
\par 
\par }{\b 5.\tab NAMEA}{ \endash  3-letter abbreviation for state A.
\par 
\par }{\b 6.\tab ACTNUMA}{ \endash  ICB actor-level sequence number (variable CRACNO in the actor-level ICB data set) for state A. This ID number corresponds to the actor\rquote 
s case number in the actor-level ICB data set . If state A is not considered a crisis-actor by ICB, then ACTNUMA equals 9999.
\par 
\par }{\b 7.\tab STATEB}{ \endash  3-digit COW ID number for state B.
\par 
\par }{\b 8.\tab NAMEB}{ \endash  3-letter abbreviation for state B.
\par 
\par }{\b 9.\tab ACTNUMB}{ \endash  ICB actor-level sequence number (variable CRACNO in the actor-level ICB data set) for state B. See ACTNUMA, variable 6, for more detail.
\par  
\par }{\b 10.\tab ONESIDE}{ \endash  Indicates whether the crisis dyad is one-sided or not. 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {0 \endash  two sided dyad (both dyad members are considered crisis actors)
\par 1 \endash  one-sided dyad, state A is a non-crisis actor
\par 2 \endash  one-sided dyad, state B is a non-crisis actor
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {
\par }{\b 11.\tab COWMEMA}{ \endash  Indicates the interstate system membership status of state A according to the Correlates of War Project\rquote s criteria.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {0 \endash \tab 
state is a member of interstate system for entire duration of crisis dyad period (if a state terminates on the last day of the crisis period, it is considered an independent state for the entire duration of the crisis dyad period)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {1 \endash  state started during crisis dyad period 
\par 2 \endash  state terminated during crisis dyad period (before last day of crisis)
\par 3 \endash  state started after termination of crisis dyad period
\par 4 \endash  state terminated before initiation of crisis dyad period
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 12.\tab COWMEMB}{ \endash  Indicates the interstate system membership status of state B according to the Correlate\rquote s of War Project\rquote 
s criteria (coding rules are the same as for COWMEMA, variable 11 above).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 13.\tab GWMEMA}{ \endash  Indicates the interstate system membership status of state A according to Gleditsch and Ward\rquote s (1999) criteria.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {0 \endash \tab 
state is a member of interstate system for entire duration of crisis dyad period (if a state terminates on the last day of the crisis period, it is considered an independent state for the entire duration of the crisis dyad period)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {1 \endash  state started during crisis dyad period 
\par 2 \endash  state terminated during crisis dyad period (before last day of crisis)
\par 3 \endash  state started after termination of crisis dyad period
\par 4 \endash  state terminated before initiation of crisis dyad period
\par 5 \endash  state is a microstate
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {
\par }{\b 14.\tab GWMEMB}{ \endash  Indicates the interstate system membership status of state B according to Gleditsch and Ward\rquote s (1999) criteria (coding rules are the same as for GWMEMA, variable 13 above).
\par 
\par }{\b 15.}{\tab }{\b IWCA}{ \endash  The ICB actor-level coding for whether the crisis for state A was an intra-war crisis. The coding below is the same as ICB\rquote s coding in the actor-level data set. If an actor is not a crisis actor, IWCA equals 
\endash 99.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {1 -\tab not an intra-war crisis (IWC)
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {2 -\tab Entry of a major actor into an ongoing war}{\b  }{
(Military campaigns in the Middle East by Germany and Italy triggered intra-war crises for Britain, Iraq and Vichy France in 1941).
\par 3 -\tab Perceived high probability of a major actor entering a war (Israel's crisis in November 1956 arose from the Soviet threat to intervene in the Suez Nationalization-War Campaign Crisis).
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {4 -\tab Exit of a major actor 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {5 -\tab Perceived high probability of major power exiting a war (On 23 October 1972
 South Vietnam learned of agreements reached between the U.S. and North Vietnam [the Paris Accords], which could have resulted in the exit of the U.S. from the War - in the Christmas Bombing Crisis).
\par 6 -\tab Technological escalation of a war (German aerial bombing of the U.K. in 1940 constituted the Battle of Britain intra-war crisis).}{\b 
\par }{7 -\tab Major non-technological escalation}{\b  }{(On 30 March 1972 North Vietnam launched a spring offensive, initiating the Vietnam-Ports Mining intra-war crisis).}{\b 
\par }{8 -\tab Defeat in a significant battle (The Soviet defeat of the German Army at the Battle of Stalingrad triggered an IWC for Germany).
\par 9 -\tab Internal deterioration}{\b  }{(In March 1944 Hungarian leaders perceived that German troops massing on its borders were about to occupy Hungary).
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {10-Other
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\ul   }{
\par }{\b 16.}{\tab }{\b IWCB}{ - The ICB actor-level coding for whether the crisis for state B was an intra-war crisis. The code rules are the same as for IWCA (variable 14 above). If an actor is not a crisis actor, IWCB equals \endash 99.
\par 
\par }{\b 17.\tab YRTRIGA}{ \endash  Year of crisis trigger for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, YRTRIGA is set to \endash 99.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 18.\tab MOTRIGA}{ \endash  Month of crisis trigger for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, MOTRIGA is set to \endash 
99. In some cases, the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise month of the trigger for a crisis actor. In those cases, it was assumed that the crisis had been triggered in December of the given year.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 19.\tab DATRIGA}{ \endash  Day of crisis trigger for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, DATRIGA is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise day of the trigger for a crisis actor, the following codes were used in the actor-level data set:
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {66 \endash  trigger occurred in the first third of the given month
\par 77 \endash  trigger occurred in the middle third of the given month
\par 88 \endash  trigger occurred in the last third of the given month
\par 99 \endash  unable to estimate precisely when in the given month the crisis began
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {For the dyadic-level data set, the following assumptions were made to estimate DATRIGA:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {if DATRIGA=66, trigger occurs on the 10}{\super th}{ day of the given month
\par if DATRIGA=77, trigger occurs on the 20}{\super th}{ day of the given month
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {if DATRIGA=88 or 99, trigger occurs on the last day of the given month
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 20.\tab YRTERMA}{ \endash  Year of crisis termination for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, YRTERMA is set to \endash 99.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 21.\tab MOTERMA}{ \endash  Month of crisis termination for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, MOTERMA is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise month of the termination for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for MOTRIGA (variable 18, described above).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 22.\tab DATERMA}{ \endash  Day of crisis termination for state A. When state A is a non-crisis actor, DATERMA is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise day of the crisis termination for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for DATRIGA (variable 19, described above).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 23.\tab YRTRIGB}{ \endash  Year of crisis trigger for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, YRTRIGB is set to \endash 99.
\par 
\par }{\b 24.\tab MOTRIGB}{ \endash  Month of crisis trigger for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, MOTRIGB is set to \endash 99. W
hen the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise month of the trigger for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for MOTRIGA (variable 18, described above).
\par 
\par }{\b 25.}{\tab }{\b DATRIGB}{ \endash  Day of crisis trigger for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, DATRIGB is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise day of the trigger for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for DATRIGA (variable 19, described above).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 26.\tab YRTERMB}{ \endash  Year of crisis termination for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, YRTERMB is set to \endash 99.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 27.\tab MOTERMB}{ \endash  Month of crisis termination for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, MOTERMB is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise month of the termination for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for MOTRIGA (variable 18, described above).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 28.\tab DATERMB}{ \endash  Day of crisis termination for state B. When state B is a non-crisis actor, DATERMB is set to \endash 
99. When the ICB Project was unable to identify the precise day of the crisis termination for a crisis actor, the same coding rules were applied as for DATRIGA (variable 19, described above).
\par 
\par }{\b 29.\tab TRGYRDY}{ \endash  Dyadic trigger year
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\ul A Note about Dyadic Trigger and Termination Dates}{ - For two-sided c
rises, the dyadic trigger date is set to the later of the two trigger dates for the two dyad members. That is, the crisis dyad begins once both states cross the crisis threshold. The dyadic termination date is set to the earlier of the two termination dat
e
s for the actors. As soon as one of the countries in the dyad believes the crisis has terminated, the dyadic nature of the crisis is complete. For one-sided dyads, trigger and termination dates are obviously not available for the non-crisis actor. For the
se dyads, the dyadic trigger and termination dates are based solely on the trigger and termination dates for the sole crisis actor. 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 30.\tab TRGMODY}{ \endash  Dyadic trigger month (See TRGYRDY, variable 29, for more information about how dyadic trigger and termination dates are calculated.)

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 31.\tab TRGDADY}{ \endash  Dyadic trigger day (See TRGYRDY, variable 29, for more information about how dyadic trigger and termination dates are calculated.)

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 { 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 32.\tab TRMYRDY}{ \endash  Dyadic termination year (See TRGYRDY, variable 29, for more informatio
n about how dyadic trigger and termination dates are calculated.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 33.\tab TRMMODY}{ \endash 
 Dyadic termination month (See TRGYRDY, variable 29, for more information about how dyadic trigger and termination dates are calculated.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 34.\tab TRMDADY}{ \endash  Dyadic termination day 
(See TRGYRDY, variable 29, for more information about how dyadic trigger and termination dates are calculated.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 35.}{\tab }{\b DURDAYS}{ \endash 
 Dyad duration, in days (For information on how estimates were made when the precise day or month for crisis triggers and terminations was not available, see entries for variables MOTRIGA and DATRIGA, variables 18 and 19, respectively.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }{\b 36.\tab DURYEAR}{ \endash  Number of calendar years spanned by dyad
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 37.\tab ONGOING}{ \endash  Indicates whether the crisis dyad-year represents a year subsequent to the calendar year in which the crisis dyad began.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {0 \endash  year of crisis onset
\par 1 \endash  ongoing crisis dyad-year (i.e. crisis began in a previous year)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b 38.\tab CRDYNUM}{ \endash  Unique crisis dyad number. Note, a crisis dyad that spans more than one year retains the same value for CRDYN
UM for each annual observation.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {References
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Brecher, Michael and Jonathan Wilkenfeld. (2000) }{\ul A Study of Crisis}{. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University of Michigan Press.
\par Gleditsch, Kristian S. and Michael D. Ward. (1999) \'93A revised list of independent states since the Congress of Vienna.\'94 }{\ul International Interactions}{ 25:393-413.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Hewitt, J. Joseph (2003) \'93Dyadic Processes and International Crises.\'94 }{\ul Journal of Conflict Resolution}{. 47(3).
\par }}